# potluck

I wanted to use this project as an opportunity to expand my ethnological and narrative research from the analytical realm to the visual realm as well as test out a new potential platform for my thesis project, in the event that an installation piece is not feasible. This interactive photo essay expands on the idea of a potluck, a communal meal in which each of the guests contributes a homemade dish. With the contribution of each dish comes cultural stories of how the dish was made, where it came from, and who helped make it. This visual study examines both the commonalities of Chinese American meals at home and the small intricacies that make each setting unique. For example, every photo illustrates a family-style meal, where each person is responsible for serving themselves. Some spreads are extravagant, while others are very simple. A few are embarrassed of their leftovers. Many use chopsticks. I find that these little details, and their accompanying anecdotes, tell a great deal about the Chinese American experience and the generation gap from its epicenter.

Evidently, potlucks are a cornerstone of my cultural identity, and I find it especially intriguing that during this difficult time where social distancing is at play, I’m unable to share home cooked meals with my friends and family. Consequently, digitally collaging each dish onto a familiar lazy susan was both depressing and encouraging for me. I was saddened that I had to go such length to recreate an experience that I used to have nearly every week during my upbringing. Yet, I realized that digital anthologies like this are fruitful during times of crisis, as I’m able to share people’s stories despite social isolation and recreate the togetherness of a potluck that closely binds the Chinese American community.
